I love studying how really brilliant
people have produced their work when I
was in college I used to work in a
library that had collections of early
letters and manuscripts from different
brilliant authors and politicians and I
always found it so inspiring to look at
the work that they had been producing
and realized that they were just people
like me they have the same number of
hours in a day and yet with those hours
they managed to do something really
meaningful and I found that really
inspiring and recently I was struck by
what I thought was a kind of insightful
Revelation although it's a little bit
obvious that I want to talk about
further and that Insight is this
throughout human history a majority of
the great works that have ever been
produced were produced with pretty basic
tools
but today it seems that we optimize
around making tools more complicated and
more efficient which might actually be
counter to producing great work before I
get into this further I'd like to thank
the sponsor of today's video today's
video is sponsored by fam Club fam Club
is a new mobile app that lets you pay to
consume premium content that is produced
by creators it's focused on affordable
one-off transactions so you're not
paying monthly to get access to content
and you're not paying a huge premium for
Content that you could get for free
elsewhere so I put together a 12 video
series the videos are one to two minutes
each let's talk about different
productivity techniques things that I've
talked about extensively on this channel
before but collected them for the first
time in kind of one orderly series and
you can buy it for literally one dollar
and a portion of those proceeds just
comes back to me if it sounds
interesting to you there's a link in my
bio that you can check out where you can
purchase that series watch those videos
again it's a one dollar transaction you
get those videos forever you can watch
them whenever you want and it's a cool
way to support the channel I first
started thinking about this idea at a
museum exhibit that had an Octavia
Butler manuscript now Octavia Butler is
one of my favorite authors I really love
her work and it was really fascinating
for me to see this typewritten
manuscript that she had crossed certain
words out on made some notes in the
margin I thought it was really cool what
I realized is here's someone who I look
up to a prolific creative who created
work that has influenced the world
and they're working in a way completely
different from how I work most of the
books that influenced me were written
either by hand or on a typewriter or in
some cases they were dictated
Dostoyevsky dictated his books to
stenographers and of course these were
the tools that were available to authors
at the time but they held something in
common and something that's different
from the tools that we default to today
and that is that they were extremely
focused though you might not be able to
write by hand as fast as you could type
on a computer the reality is that a
computer has many distractions on it of
course you have notifications emails you
can Tab out to Twitter whenever you want
you just can't do that with pen and
paper what I think is interesting though
is that we default to using a computer
because it's just more efficient we can
output words more quickly so it must be
better right but what I realized
recently is that this is actually kind
of backwards efficiency is not the
bottleneck to creating great work a
great author is generally not limited by
their typing speed they are limited by
their ability to reduce new ideas great
ideas and distraction is much more of a
limiting factor than typing speed the
difference between me and a great author
is not that the great author can type a
lot faster than me put words on paper a
lot faster than me it's that they have
better ideas there's a certain laziness
in optimizing around efficiency that I
don't think is necessarily a bad thing
if you were to produce equivalent work
writing by hand and writing on a
computer well you should just write on
the computer of course because it's
going to be a lot faster and a lot less
messy and you're going to waste less
paper but there's a big if is the
quality of the work that you produce on
a computer just as good as the quality
of the work that you would produce by
hand or on a typewriter or some other
medium that has less Interruption
digital tools are really good at making
us feel busy when I'm on my computer I
can be feeling like I'm productive like
I'm doing work and you know my day is
filled but if I'm bouncing between
emails and replying to things and trying
to also do some creative work in some
technical work it can be really
overwhelming and I end up not getting
any meaningful work done one thing that
I've long noticed about myself is that I
do some of my best work when I'm on
airplanes and it's not just me this is a
pretty common phenomenon I've talked
about it with a bunch of friends I've
read articles about this you're able to
use your most efficient Tools in a
setting where there is no distraction I
can type in my laptop but there will be
no notifications even possible I can't
Tab out to Twitter even if I wanted to
so I'm very limited on the distractions
and therefore I'm able to use that
efficiency in a productive way and so I
think that this is important as you
think about the work that you're doing
understanding actually how high-res high
reward using modern tools can be so what
does this mean actionably I think the
first thing is understanding how your
tools might influence your outcomes and
questioning whether or not that's
aligned with what it is that you
actually want if your goal is just to
write a blog post pretty fast then sure
writing on your computer and having
notifications on might not be a big deal
but if your goal is to produce great
original creative work work well then
your tools might be working counter to
what it is that you're trying to do
something that I've been trying to work
at is why I have this resistance to
using less efficient tools when it comes
to producing work for some reason it
feels really wrong for me to write by
hand when I could type
and maybe that's just what I'm used to
and what I've adapted to I mean I can't
remember the last time that I actually
sat down for hours with just a pen and
paper and wrote or worked on something
like that so I'm going to experiment
with this I'm going to kind of embrace
that discomfort the first thing that I'm
going to try is I'm going to try
actually creating airplane mode hours
where I'm completely disconnected but
I'm still using efficient tools like my
computer the second thing I'm going to
try is actually just going fully offline
using inefficient tools like pen and
paper and seeing how that influences the
quality of the work that I produce and
whether or not it's worth the efficiency
trade-off the end result here might just
be that I go back to using my computer
all the time I'm actually fully open to
that possibility but I think it's an
important question to ask especially
when looking at all the people who I
admire looking at how they created their
work then looking at how I create my
work and realizing that it's completely
different there's something to test
there and I'm excited to do it I wish
that I had something more concrete to
share with you this is what you should
do or what you shouldn't do but really
what I'm trying to do here is just open
your eyes to something that I realized
that
is pretty obvious in retrospect but
wasn't obvious to me until I started to
think about it in depth maybe it was
obvious to you and this video is a waste
of your time and if so I apologize but
if not I hope you enjoyed up we got
something out of this and I'll see you
again soon
[Music]